

Transfer Snow file 14a_coal.ace was missing, the summer texture has been used instead
Shape file cessnab_landing.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file cessnar_flyover.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file cessnay_anim.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file cessnay_flyover.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file coveredwallbrick10m.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file coveredwallbrick50m.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file coveredwallstone10m.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file coveredwallstone50m.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file dwcarsbillboard.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file dwcoachmarsposter.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file dwconcposter.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file dwhunstposter.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file dwspacedustposter.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file fcwmill.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file fcwmilldeck.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file flift1+driver.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file flift2+driver.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape file forkliftlowered.s is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file cessnab_landing.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file cessnar_flyover.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file cessnay_anim.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file cessnay_flyover.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file coveredwallbrick10m.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file coveredwallbrick50m.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file coveredwallstone10m.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file coveredwallstone50m.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file dwcarsbillboard.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file dwcoachmarsposter.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file dwconcposter.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Missing texture file dwhunstposter.ace referred by dwessobill.s was not found in your Default routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file dwhunstposter.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file dwspacedustposter.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file fcwmilldeck.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Missing texture file fcwmill.ace referred by fcwmillr.s was not found in your Default routes.
Missing texture file snow\fcwmill.ace referred by fcwmillr.s was not found in your Default routes.
Missing texture file night\fcwmill.ace referred by fcwmillr.s was not found in your Default routes.
Missing texture file fcwmill2.ace referred by fcwmillr.s was not found in your Default routes.
Missing texture file snow\fcwmill2.ace referred by fcwmillr.s was not found in your Default routes.
Missing texture file night\fcwmill2.ace referred by fcwmillr.s was not found in your Default routes.
Missing texture file fcwmill1.ace referred by fcwmillr.s was not found in your Default routes.
Missing texture file snow\fcwmill1.ace referred by fcwmillr.s was not found in your Default routes.
Missing texture file night\fcwmill1.ace referred by fcwmillr.s was not found in your Default routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file flift1+driver.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file flift2+driver.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Shape Definition (SD) file forkliftlowered.sd is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes.
Sound file Cessna_Engine_Idle.sms is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes. Called by D:\MEP\Train Simulator\Routes\MidEastPlus\world\w-006065+014991.ws
Sound file Cessna_Engine_Idle.sms is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes. Called by 
Sound file x_ja_points.wav is missing from your route, no alternative is available in the other installed routes. Called by D:\MEP\Train Simulator\Routes\MidEastPlus\Sound\MepSteamTrack10Ex.sms




ERRORS WERE NOTED, DO NOT COMPACT ROUTE UNTIL ANY MISSING FILES ARE REPLACED.
